Again, Colossians chapter four, beginning at verse two.
Continue earnestly in prayer, being diligent, vigilant in it with thanksgiving.
Meanwhile, praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the word to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains.
that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
Walking wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time.
Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
This is the Word of God for the people of God.
Amen.
May God add his blessing to the reading of this word you may be seeing.
We're going to grab some verses in the scriptures in a couple of different places.
So if you like to follow along or take notes you can write them and I'll share with you what those are as we get to them.
Today we're talking about something that is dear to my heart and
I really think that when we talk about a church and life of a church, one of the most important things to talk about is how people feel when they walk in the door for the first time.
When you walk into somebody's home or a business or anything that you've never been to and you feel like you're really welcome, you feel it before anybody says a word on many occasions.
You just know you're welcome.
There may be eye contact or laughter, people enjoying one another, and a sense that someone's glad you're there, or they want you there.
And that's true.
In a business, it's true for a home, it's true for relationships, it's also true for a church.
And what's interesting and what I don't like this statistic, as a matter of fact, I wish it was a vice versa.
But visitors rarely remember the sermon first.
They remember the atmosphere and the mood of the service and the people.
That's what they comment on.
They don't go, yeah, it was a great sermon and it had a people okay too.
They go, it's great people and the sermon wasn't bad.
If you've got a church that's warm and inviting and the sermon's only okay, people are okay with that.
You got a great sermon and the church is cold and unfriendly.
They're not so happy about that.
And they're less likely to return because of that.
But they remember that atmosphere.
So before they meet the pastor, they meet the spirit, if you will, of the house of God, what it's like to be there.
I think we are a very welcoming church.
Are you?
A part of that, are you a welcoming person seeking out people who come to make sure they've been seen?
It's important for me.
Maybe you know this about me to try to remember to shake everybody's hand and greet everybody.
This might be the only time this week that I get a chance to do that.
And I don't know when the next time will be.
And it's not something where I go, I need to do this out of obligation.
I do it because I like to meet people and see how they're doing.
I don't want to miss that opportunity to say hello and see if anybody needs to say anything.
It also fulfills a scripture that I didn't intentionally fill by doing it.
And when we do that,
when it matters to us that scriptures feel filled even better it's a Romans 15 seven it says therefore receive one another just as Christ also received us to the glory of God so we receive one another when we welcome each other the message today called the doors and arms it's one of those titles that
needs an explanation because you open a door, you want to know when someone opens the door to you what the heart is behind the welcome that you get.
In the New Testament times, hospitality was very critical.
That's why Jesus turned the water into wine.
That's why he helped so many people who asked for it because he didn't turn people down and having a successful wedding at the Cana
was something that would have brought shame if it was not, so he helped out.
And it still brings true about hospitality in the Middle Eastern lands today in certain areas.
And when I learned what that meant and learning what that means to them by hospitality changes how you read the Bible.
I had an opportunity to go to a lecture one time from a man who was raised there, but was pastoring the United Methodist Church out of California.
And he told a story about his son asking him one day, and they were teenagers, the son and his friend, ask him if his son, if his friend of his son could come to dinner.
He said, Dad can, I don't remember what he said,
son's friend's name was, but he said, do you know what you're asking?
He said, I think so.
And he said, son, in our culture, if someone sits at our table, we become responsible for them like their family, no matter who it is.
He's okay, dad.
Oh, so is that a yes?
Didn't really pay much attention, right?
So his dad let his friend come and eat, they ate, and
He didn't think anything of it.
A few weeks later, the son and his friend got into some trouble.
The kind of trouble ends you up in jail for a little while, as teenager.
He calls his dad.
This is dad.
My friend and I were out doing some stupid stuff.
I got in trouble.
Can you come bail me out?
Dad says, you're my son.
I'm responsible.
for what goes on in your life until you're not my son and you're out of the house.
Yes, I will come.
Well, the son told his friend dad's coming.
The other boy said, my dad can't afford it.
And I can't call him.
I don't have any call.
And he said, well, I'll see what I can do when I get out.
Well, as soon as the bailiff, I guess it's the bailiff that comes and get him out of the jail.
or the sheriff, I don't even know because I've never had that experience, but they came to get his son out of jail and he said, and you too.
You saw, oh, someone bailed him out?
And I said, yes, he's been bailed out too.
And the bail was thousands of dollars.
When they walked out, it was just his dad there and he said, Dad, who bailed him out?
He said, I did.
He said, why?
He ate at my table.
I treat him just the same as I treat you.
We don't think like that.
That's not how we do it.
But that's how they do it.
It's a very important thing if someone sits at your table in that culture that you are responsible for them like they're your own.
And so that's what his son learned.
That's what he taught us.
So when you see that in the Bible playing out,
or people who are at meals, you'll see that the host is responsible to that people that came for the rest of their immature ages until they grow to have their own home.
In Acts chapter 2, verses 42 through 47, it talked about the church growing, but the church didn't grow
through events, activities, going to do things, it grew through the embrace of people.
In Acts chapter 2 you may remember when the Holy Spirit was poured out and in verses 42 through 47 this is what happened.
They continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship in the breaking of bread and in prayers, and fear came on every soul, and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles.
All who believed were together and had all things in common.
They sold their possessions and goods, divided them among all as anyone had need.
So continuing daily with one another in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they ate their food with gladness and simplicity of heart.
Praising God and having favor with all the people and the Lord added to the church daily those were being saved They went from home to home breaking bread sharing the good news.
That's how the church grew They didn't say come to us.
They went there They went to where the people were so they devoted themselves to fellowship shared meals and Opened homes every day hospitality
It's the heart behind the welcome there.
So for them, the church hospitality wasn't a department, wasn't a section of the business, it was a discipleship practice.
So if you don't grab anything else, hospitality is a discipleship practice for the church even today.
in Romans 12, it says, take a constant interest in the needs of God's beloved people and eagerly welcome people as guests into your home.
True hospitality is an attitude, not an activity.
The thing you need to know about this is you need to know that you have to open your arms first and your heart before you open the door.
You can't make the adjustment later.
You have to do it ahead of time.
So when you have an open heart and your arms are ready to receive people, when you open a door, it is a spiritual statement.
We have an open door policy where I work.
I like it.
We used to have one where I used to work back when I was in seminary.
Well, they said,
They had an open door policy because they were required to leave their office door open.
It didn't mean what you would think an open door policy was where you can just go in and talk in any level to any level.
That's not what that meant.
But I didn't know that.
I thought they met an open door policy.
Was the doors open?
You can go in.
Back then I didn't have a lot of sense of boundaries, sense of
where I couldn't, couldn't go, and I wondered into offices all over the place.
They didn't like to add too much.
But it's kind of funny.
And later it was explained to me that doors are just open for show.
We want to look like we're open, but we're really not.
And I went, well, now you tell me.
The one we haven't worked is truly an open door policy.
Anybody can go anywhere at any time to talk to anybody, as long as they don't have something going on in there.
But there's one person that secludes themselves in their office because they don't like to be invaded when they're doing their work.
There's always one in the crowd, you know what I mean.
And they don't like being available even if they're supposed to be because they want to get their stuff done in peace and quiet.
But the door has a spiritual statement when it says, your need is probably more important than what I'm doing, but it's not important to me.
That's a spiritual statement.
So we make a statement with our door at home and our work and here at church, whether they are open or closed.
Jesus said in John 10, I am the door.
Anyone who wants to find peace comes through me.
He's not a closed door.
He's an open door.
He welcomes all who will come.
Every church door symbolizes that invitation from Jesus that all can come through, that they are welcome here, regardless of where that church is.
An open door means that there's no invisible barriers of class, age, background, no favoritism, just
Fellowship and welcome You are wanted here in Hebrews chapter 13 It says in the message be ready with a meal or a bed when it's needed Some have extended hospitality to angels without even knowing it Hospitality then is a ministry of anticipation not reaction or
Anything else, it anticipates what you can do before it's needed and gets ready.
Well, what are we anticipating here?
What do we expect?
Are our expectations in need of an update?
I was at a church, I think it was Carol Illinois, and I think the church was since closed, but I went there and I spoke, and I looked on the back wall and said, you can expect a miracle here today.
But it didn't look like anybody was expecting one.
So every now and then, I asked myself this question, do I believe God can show up here today and create a miracle?
or whatever's needed today.
Do I believe that?
If I don't believe that, why not?
If I do, what am I doing about it?
Same question you can ask yourself.
But I think when the slogan, the jingle, the mantra of the United Methodist Church came out 30 years ago or so, open minds, open hearts, open doors, I thought they did pretty good with it, but they got it kind of wrong in one sense.
Because they were trying to talk about everybody everywhere.
We don't want to exclude anybody from anything, no matter who you are, no matter what you did.
And the message was almost right.
But it's first an open heart and then your door is open with open arms and you got to keep an open mind about what that means.
Not everybody agrees with the slogan or the way it's presented, but if you understand the way I look at it and with the way I interpret it because that's how I interpret it as we are an open-hearted people.
We have doors open to anybody and our minds say we can serve whoever God brings us.
That's how I look at that.
But if our hearts aren't involved
and our arms aren't open, people will know your doors open but your arms are not.
And so the arms part is missing in my mind from the slogan.
You can have an open heart but keep your arms shut is what I'm saying.
But can we as a church and as individuals implement how God really intended this to be with open heart, open arms aligned with Jesus Christ
that when people come through an open door, they feel like they're wanted.
Expected and cared for.
No matter who it is, that's a good question to answer.
But the reason I say this is because arms are so important.
It's one of the greatest symbolistic, symbolic thing in the Bible that we can look at.
When you see a story, you can see that either someone has returned away and resisting or they're open and receptive.
And the reason the story of the prodigal son is so important isn't just because the father welcomes his son back, but it says he opens his arms.
And his arms open because his heart has already been opened to him in his return.
And he did this before the sun could utter a word of apology or confession.
Welcoming people into the family of God is not contingent on their worthiness.
It is driven by our compassion.
Churches often stand at the window of the parable watching for the lost.
welcoming them, but very few run down the driveway to find them.
The ones who do become places of healing.
You can tell the difference between a church going to the motions and a church in motion.
Do you know what I mean?
We were going Sunday, we did church.
Now we're going to go back to life until next Sunday with the church.
That's going through the motions.
A church in motion is actually trying to seek to minister to care for beyond a Sunday morning, which is generally for those who are members and those who have been regularly attending.
The rest of the week is for those who aren't there.
And that's where the ministry is.
What kind of church do we want to be and become?
Because we have to keep becoming what God called us to be.
And what kind of church has God called us to be?
The kind of church that we are is dependent upon the culture that we establish here.
And it's established, long before I ever got here, we had a culture established.
And this church in my mind has created a culture of invitation, of welcoming, of loving, of receiving, of caring.
of doing what it can to help in times of need in great ways.
But brothers, fear, fatigue, or past disappointment can quietly build walls.
But you know, walls that keep others out eventually trap us in.
So we must always be willing to love readily.
In Ephesians chapter 2 it says, Jesus is our peace.
He broke down the wall of separation.
And that was referring to it being broken down between the Jews and the Gentiles.
And if Jesus can do that, we can tear down invisible ones between old members and new neighbors.
It saddens me.
And I've not seen it in a while because I'm here.
but I've been in churches and it saddens me when there are people in the church that are odds with each other and they barely speak to each other and yet there they are saying I believe and I love people but I won't speak to them and they won't speak to me and we have this rift but we're still going to church together and we believe the same God we just don't believe the same thing about God that says love the brother or something like that right but what kind of message if someone comes
and they see that, what does that give to people considering how to live the faith and learn from that kind of an example?
This is okay.
What part of the faith says that's okay?
What part of love one another says that's okay?
Where does forgiveness enter which is a primary part that makes Christianity different than any other thing?
We live forgiven and we offer forgiveness.
What would you like?
Would you like to be a message of healing or a message of disparity in the faith?
I think I know your answer.
In Acts chapter 28, Paul talks about the blessing of an open church, of a gracious church, if you will, because Paul received all who came to him.
opened armed churches, become centers of transformational expectation.
That's a packed phrase.
I'm going to say it again.
I'm going to explain it.
Open armed churches become centers of transformational expectation.
In other words, every time we open a door, literally or relationally,
We create a space where God does His best work, which is reconciliation.
We expect God to do something.
If someone's hurting, we expect God to heal.
If they're suffering to comfort and we're part of the solution, we see we are part of God's transforming work to the people around us and we don't run from that.
We run toward it.
So we expect God to do something.
Because that's what God does!
Question why society is changing so rapidly?
Are you searching for the reasons why?
Join us on the Rise Radio Podcast.
For a journey of discovery, as we wrestle with the latest social narratives, belief systems, ancient prophecies, strange phenomena, and spirituality, your worldview will never be the same again.
Rise above the noise.
Visit riseradio.net today.
When we expect God to show up, that's the great thing.
And miracles to happen in our own worship service, they're more likely to occur.
If you don't expect miracles, how can they come?
Jesus said, it's lack of faith that causes lack of miracle or power of God or work in the Holy Spirit.
When you came, what did you expect to happen here today?
I asked myself this question too.
I had to, to make sure.
And you know what my answer is now?
Anything is possible.
For with God, all things are possible.
Everything is possible with God.
What did you think would not happen when you came?
That was the question I asked myself too.
And how would you answer that?
And I said, what do I think would not happen?
Anything we resist will not happen.
But what do you think could happen?
Could happen or might happen when the Holy Spirit is actively doing ministry in our presence?
What do you think could happen?
If the Holy Spirit is doing a work right now in this room,
What do you think that would look like?
Well, it's about time that someone did.
What do you expect God to do?
What do you think it looks like when the Holy Spirit doesn't work in our presence?
And if you've seen it happen, you know what to expect in some facets of it.
I promise you, sometimes the Holy Spirit shows up in a hospital on the side of a road when someone's not sure they're going to make it.
What do you think God can't do or won't do?
He's not limited to hear if he was, we'd all be in trouble out there.
I promise.
But if it's where the kind of folks to say, well, my church is just Sunday.
Well, I guess God, you can leave him alone.
He can leave you alone for the rest of the week.
I don't think so.
I don't think you want that deal.
So what does it look like to you when God's working?
How do you know?
Here's the question this morning.
Do you want to be a church culture setter?
the one who sets the mood and the atmosphere in the church.
Well, I'll tell you how.
If you want to, if you don't want to, close your ears.
These are not hard.
And one of them is real easy.
It's the first one.
It's a personal cultural center.
Invite one new person or a family to lunch.
or supper at your home or go out to eat with somebody or after church it can be somebody who's here or can be someone who's not here it can be someone whose wife is on a cruise or it can be someone who is not attending this church but that's very simple to be open to people and say let me bless you with a meal
Sometimes that speaks more to someone than anything else you could have done by taking some stress off their plate and you've given them a plate of blessing.
That's true.
Second thing you could do, you can help us with our understanding and overview of the ministry and appeal of our church to take an open mind and do this.
Audit, how we welcome people.
How are we doing?
What can we do better?
Do we need better signage to show people where the restrooms are, where to go when they come in?
How to do with our offering because we do it differently than we did before and other people may not know.
Do we have a way to connect with people who walk in the door for the first time to share these things with them?
You're offering, if you want to give it, it's in the plate there.
You don't have to wait for us.
It's not going to come around.
We don't say it.
It's not in the bulletin.
We don't mention it.
We don't pray over the offering.
We don't do any of that.
So someone who's never been here?
Well, they're gonna know what to do, right?
So do we do well with that?
Do we do well with follow-up when people come?
When people are sick, do we do well with that?
And seating, if someone's new and they don't know where to sit, who see?
I saw people walking in church and say, I don't know where to sit because I don't know whose pew this is.
So do we do that?
Do we make people feel comfortable?
Do we have people greeting people and welcoming them?
What's the service feel like in the flow?
Is the worship engaging?
Does it feel normal?
Does it feel inspirational, encouraging?
All these things, if you're willing to help, take a look at how we're doing that and tell us what we're doing well and help us to see what we can do better.
We don't mind being better.
at loving people and welcoming them.
So if you're willing to take an open eye, and how do we communicate as a church our expectation for worship and for serving?
Do we communicate that?
Do we have a way of sharing that?
And what's it look like?
And is it enough to do what we're doing and say what we're saying about that?
These things are kind of easy.
But they're important.
We need to know.
The third thing you could do is you could step up in your ability to how you show your own leadership.
Be visible and approachable after the service.
Ask the pastor what he needs or anyone else needs during the week or how you can help.
Think of it like this.
A lot of people are not focused on, hey, is anybody here needs help?
They're focused on beating the Baptist at a restaurant.
I'm hungry and I gotta go.
What's the mentality that we have?
Are we trying to create a culture expectation where I'm gonna communicate and connect with people before I go and I'm gonna shake every hand or I gotta go.
Each one communicates and each one is a sign of your leadership style or leadership
separation.
You know, it's a bright day for me when someone offers their help.
I really like it.
And they don't say, pass what you want me to do.
They say, how can I help you?
Whatever I can do to help, I will.
It's a really good thing to have happen.
I remember when I was in the Karnak charge in Southern Illinois and I was moving to a new charge over in Pope County.
And I was getting the church ready for the pastoral transition.
And this is what I said to the church.
I've never heard another pastor do this or say this because I'm elsewhere.
But maybe they say this.
The new guy never stopped asking him how you can help him.
After a few weeks, things are going to get to routine.
Same is always business as usual.
Six months in, ask him again.
Three months later, ask him again because you never know.
the day you're going to hit when he goes, I was fighting this battle alone and I felt so alone in this today.
Thank you.
That word of encouragement or offering to help may be just enough without doing anything but saying that.
End to each other.
How can I help you?
Anything you need.
What can I pray for?
Fourth thing, last thing actually, hunger for spiritual renewal and fire.
spiritual renewal and fire.
That means an outpouring of the Holy Spirit.
We see God bringing new souls to Christ and we get to witness it.
We can see healings and transformations and reconciled relationships, things like that.
And here's what we had pray.
Lord, send people we can love well.
Did I hard prayer to pray?
send people we can love well.
That is a simple prayer.
So we need to be asking ourselves these things I just mentioned in this message and looking inward at how we expect church to be in our part in that.
Listen, I can teach evangelism.
I can teach discipleship.
I can teach about the inner healing and the wounds of childhood and all the abuses we've suffered in our lives.
I can help us create a culture of expectation that God's going to do certain ministries here.
But what we need is to know what our heart is and where it's at so we know what we need and what you would like me to help with.
How can I help us do what you know God needs for you and for others?
Will you take time this week to ponder the things I've shared today?
That's a very important question because if you ponder these things, I'm praying the next week or the next time I see you, you'll say, I've been thinking about it pastor.
So all you have to say, I've been thinking about it.
Oh, I've been pondering.
If you like to use my word, would you pray with me?
Lord, thank you for welcoming me when I was far from you.
Teach me to carry that same grace to others, to share it.
Let our church be known for open doors.
because they have open arms and open hearts.
May I have a person who walks through these doors since your love before they hear a single word spoken, or let that be our culture, and may it find healing and transformation for the world around us.
Amen.
Let's join together in our quoted hand by standing with the first